Syria airstrikes vote: Britain set for war as 50 Labour MPs plan to revolt against Jeremy Corbyn - live - Telegraph


Accessibility links
Skip to article
Skip to article
Skip to navigation
Skip to navigation
Telegraph.co.uk

                                        Search - enhanced by OpenText

		Wednesday 02 December 2015
Home
Home
Video
Video
News
News
World
World
Sport
Sport
Finance
Finance
Comment
Comment
Culture
Culture
Travel
Travel
Life
Life
Women
Women
Fashion
Fashion
Luxury
Luxury
Tech
Tech
Cars
Cars
Film
Film
TV
TV


USA
USA
Asia
Asia
China
China
Europe
Europe
Middle East
Middle East
Australasia
Australasia
Africa
Africa
South America
South America
Central Asia
Central Asia
KCL Big Question
KCL Big Question
Expat
Expat
Honduras
Honduras
Iran
Iran
Iraq
Iraq
Israel
Israel
Palestinian Authority
Palestinian Authority
Syria
Syria
Jordan
Jordan
Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia
Bahrain
Bahrain
Dubai
Dubai
Yemen
Yemen
Egypt
Egypt
Libya
Libya
Advertisement
Home
»
News
»
World News
»
Middle East
»
Syria
Syria
Syria airstrikes vote: Britain to begin bombing within hours after MPs overwhelmingly back action  - live

MPs vote for air strikes by 397 to 223, with 67 Labour MPs backing the 
  government, after Hilary Benn gives rousing closing speech



        .newGigyaShare { display: none !important; }
    
 

											Ben Riley-Smith
and Michael Wilkinson
10:38PM GMT 02 Dec 2015
Comments
 
90000
2015-12-02 23:15:45.0
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/syria/12028313/syria-airstrikes-vote-live.html?service=artBody
On
Off

table, th, td {
   border: 0;
}

• MPs vote for bombing: 397 to 223 - a majority of 174
• Hilary Benn gives 'one of great' speeches in Commons history
Jeremy Corbyn: 'Ill-fated twist in never-ending war on terror'
Cameron looks set to secure majority in Syria vote
PM asked to apologise for 'terrorist sympathisers' comment
Labour MPs left in tears over 'bullying' tactics ahead of vote
Jeremy Corbyn urged to kick out abusive members
As Britain prepares to bomb Syria, Isil builds retreat zone in Libya
How will MPs vote? What are they voting on?
 Latest 


23:13
Cameron: Vote was 'Right decision to keep UK safe'
 
#Breaking
December 2, 2015


23:12
11 Labour shadow cab mininster backed bombing
For strikes:
Against strikes:
Abstain:


23:10
Corybn strengthened by today, claims spokesman
 
Jeremy Corbyn's spokesman pleased that 140 or so Labour MPs backed the leader: "Jeremy has increased his authority in the Labour party."
December 2, 2015


22:56
Vote breakdown
Bombing vote


22:43
67 Labour MPs voted for air strikes
 Labour source says 67 Labour MPs voted with government and backed military action in Syria 


22:31
MPs overwhelmingly back Syrian air strikes
 397 Ayes, 223 Noes. Majority of 174. 


22:22
Stella Creasy: Benn convinced me to back bombing
 How many more Labour MPs have done the same? 
 
#syria
December 2, 2015


22.19
Amendment blocking air strikes rejected by MPs
 211 Ayes, 390 Noes. 


22:17
Colour from the Chamber
 Kate McCann, our senior political correspondent, has this from inside the House of Commons. 
 As Hilary Benn took his seat on the Labour bench following a barnstorming speech in support of air strikes the chamber broke with convention and erupted with applause 
 Leader Jeremy Corbyn was forced to move over quickly as Mr Benn sat down, very nearly landing on his knee. The two men said nothing to each other. Mr Corbyn turned up three minutes late for his shadow foreign secretary's closing speech. 
 MPs are banned from clapping but every corner rang with the noise of members putting their hands together, cheering and waving their order papers in support of Labour's shadow foreign secretary. 
 Conservative welfare secretary Iain Duncan Smith grabbed a document from a bench to wave in support. 
 The surprise reaction saw Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn sat stony faced and silent as his own MPs stood up to support Benn, whose opinion he is directly opposed to. 
 And while front benchers Diane Abbott and Tom Watson sat quietly, looking uncomfortable, their colleagues in the top team Chris Bryant and Heidi Alexander both clapped in support from the front bench. 
 The division at the heart of the Labour Party, laid clear for all to see. 
 As MPs filed out of the chamber to vote on the amendment, which was defeated, Andy Burnham was the first Labour MP to shake Hilary Benn's hand. 
 Despite the two men disagreeing on whether the UK should extend air strikes to Syria or not, the shadow Home Secretary patted Mr Benn warmly on the back. 
 His congratulations was in stark contrast to Mr Corbyn, who filed quickly out of the chamber to vote followed closely by Diane Abbott, his close ally. 
 The Labour leader looked thunderous as a number of his MPs patted Mr Benn on the back for his barnstorming speech. 
 Only a few filed past him without a word. 
 As members returned from the voting lobbies a number of conservatives crossed the floor - an unusual move in itself - to offer their regards to the shadow foreign secretary. 
 Anne Main, Alan Duncan and David Davis - who opposes air strikes - all offered a pat on the shoulder. 
 DUP MPs also took turns to shake his hand as a steady stream of members shuffled past Mr Benn to take their seats. 
 John McDonnell, who took his place on the front bench with a face set with a look of bewildered disappointment, failed to speak to his colleague. 
 As MPs filed out of the chamber for the second time to vote on the main motion, following the defeat of the amendment, Jeremy Corbyn was quick to snag a prime spot on the front bench, calling to his friend Mr McDonnell to take the spare seat next to him with Mr Benn nowhere in sight. 


22:13
Clip of Benn speech (via ITV)
 
@hilarybennmp
#SyriaVote
https://t.co/uIdq2X7vse
https://t.co/34AeUcfxjk
December 2, 2015


22:10
More quotes from Benn speech
Why would we not uphold the settled will of the UN particularly when there is such support from within the region? We know they are plotting more attacks. The question for each of us is this. Given that we know what hey are doing can we really stand aside and refuse to act fully in our self defence? 
France wants us to stand with them. President Holande has asked for our assistance and help. As we areundertaking air strikes in Iraq and we are already doing everything but engage in air strikes in Sryia should we not play our full part? 
I accept there are arguments for not taking this form of action now. It is clear that many members have wrestled and may still be wrestling with what is the right thing to do is. I say the threat is now and there is rarely, if every, perfect circumstances in which to deploy military force.


22:06
Hilary Benn praised from all quarters for his speech
 
#SyriaVote
December 2, 2015
 
#SyriaVote
December 2, 2015
 
Andy Burnham first to make a beeline for Benn to congratulate him (even though they don't agree) many Labour MPs patting Benn on the back
December 2, 2015
 
There have been many superb speeches on both sides of today’s debate, but it’ll be Hilary Benn’s that’ll live longest in the memory I think
December 2, 2015
 
This makes it even more impressive: there's no text of Hilary Benn's speech - because he wrote most of it on the frontbench.
December 2, 2015


22:02
Jeremy Corbyn did not clap Benn's speech
 
Prolonged applause and cheering for Hilary Benn from Tory and Labour MPs. I have never seen anything like it. Corbyn did NOT clap.
December 2, 2015


22:00
Philip Hammond hails Benn speech as one of the 'greats'
 "That will go down as one of the truly great speeches made in the House of Commons," the Foreign Secretary said. 
 There were shouts of "outstanding" and "brilliant" from MPs as the Commons broke into (very rare) spontaneous applause when Mr Benn finished. Remarkable scenes. 


21:50
Hilary Benn gets huge applause for speech
 Here is the end of the shadow foreign secretary's rousing speech. 
And we are here faced by fasciitis. Not just their calculating brutality but their belief that they are superior to every single one of us in this Chamber tonight and all of the people that we represent. 
They hold us in contempt. They hold our values in contempt, they hold our belief in tolerance and decency in contempt, they hold our democracy - the rules by which we will make our decision tonight – in contempt. 
And what we know about fascists is that they need to be defeated. And it is why as we have heard tonight socialists and trade unionists and others joined the international brigade in the 1930s to fight against Franco. It’s why this entire House stood up against Hitler and Mussolini. 
It is why our party has always stood up against the denial of human rights and for justice. And my view is that we must now confront this evil. It is now time for us to do our bit in Syria and that is why I ask my colleagues to vote for this motion tonight.


21:30
Hilary Benn is wrapping up for Labour
 He begins by telling Mr Cameron he should "apologise" for his comment to Tory MPs last night. 
 "My Right Honourable friend is not a terrorist sympathiser," he says of Mr Corbyn. 
 “I believe that we have a moral and a practical duty to extend the action we are already taking in Iraq to Syria," he says. 
 Mr Benn says the UN resolution on action against Isil is clear and unambiguous. 
 "The UN is asking us to do something. It is asking us to do something now," he says, adding: "“Why would we not uphold the settled will of the United Nations?" 
 He adds: "Can we really leave to others to defend our national security when it is our responsibility?" 
 "France wants us to stand with them and President Hollande, the leader of our sister socialist party, has asked for our support… Should we not play our full part?" 
 Mr Benn also says: "To suggest that air strikes should not happen … is to miss the urgency of the threat … and misunderstand the nature and extent of air strikes that are being proposed." 
 "I say the threat is now and there are rarely if ever perfect circumstances to deploy military forces." 


21:20
Morning Star criticises Corbyn's free vote decision
has criticised his failure to whip MPs against war
has criticised his failure to whip MPs against war
 "It is a tragedy that Jeremy Corbyn’s decision to allow a free vote to Labour MPs over authorising a new catalogue of war crimes in Syria has handed victory to Cameron," their editorial says. 
 They go on... 


20:48
Labour's deputy leader promises tougher punishments for 'bullying'
 
https://t.co/ly76AvhMmh
December 2, 2015
 
https://t.co/MdqcXrvRj6
December 2, 2015


20:34
Abbott and Jarvis clash over air strikes
 
@HackneyAbbott
@DanJarvisMP
#SyriaVote
https://t.co/FBiThMiA9z
December 2, 2015


20:21
Corbyn condemns abuse of Labour MPs
 
pic.twitter.com/VQdCEIs07t
December 2, 2015


20:00
'Arrest those MPs for mass murder'
 Kate McCann, our senior political correspondent, is with the protestors in Parliament Square. 
 
Stop the War campaigners chanting: "David Cameron shame on you, Hilary Benn shame on you", also chanting they're both terrorist sympathisers
December 2, 2015
 
Stop the War protester on floor asks policeman if he would be arrested for murder. Adds: "Go and arrest those MPs for mass murder then".
December 2, 2015
 
"I have done my best to stop these air strikes and I will not be voting to bomb Syria" says Diane Abbott at Stop the War demo
December 2, 2015
 
pic.twitter.com/bvF4REloxJ
December 2, 2015


19:40
Tory MP: My friends have been killed by Isil
 Tom Tugendhat, a former soldier, has given an emotive speech calling for air strikes. 
It has been the most extraordinary sorrow for me to watch the destruction of Damascus, of Aleppo, of Homs and Hama, to see the Christians driven from Ma'loula, to see friends of mine, priests and monks driven from their monasteries and murdered. 
And I know who is doing it, and we know who is doing it - yes, it is the Islamic State, the so-called Islamic State, this twisted perversion of Islam that is to Islam what fascism is to nationalism, that is to Islam what communism is to socialism. 
This vile, Stalinist death cult, this dreadful regime must, I'm sorry to say, be stopped, and sadly the only way to stop it is not through talks ... They have defined us as people who must die or convert. I will do neither, I will fight.


19:30
Protests growing in volume outside Parliament
A demonstrator protests outside parliament against possible airstrikes on Syria in London
  Photo: EPA
Stop the War demonstration takes place in Westminster in central London ahead of the Mp's vote on sending RAF war planes to bomb Syria
  Photo: Nick Edwards
George Gallowway stands with protesters as they gather outside the Houses of Parliament to plead the government not to bomb the war torn country
  Photo: Wenn
Thousands of people gather in Parliament Square as part of a Stop The War campaign Protest against bombing in Syria, London
  Photo: Rex


19:22
Margaret Beckett speech being circulated by pro-bombing Labour MPs
 Labour sources are saying Margaret Beckett’s speech is being circulate by pro-bombing Labour MPs in a late attempt to shore up wavering colleagues. 
 The former foreign secretary’s intervention has been widely praised as the stand-out speech from more than eight hours (and counting) of Commons debate. 
 
https://t.co/K9QfecT6UC
#SyriaVote
https://t.co/GWr06QHJen
December 2, 2015


18:40
Protestors chant: ?Hilary Benn, shame on you?
 People opposing the war in a demonstration outside Parliament have turned their attention to the shadow foreign secretary, who has very publicly backed air strikes. 
 Ben Bradshaw, the former culture secretary, has criticised the chanting. 
 
#Daesh
December 2, 2015


18:19
VIDEO: Highlights of Syrian air strikes debate
 


18:00
Labour MP warns party of becoming pacifist 'cheerleader'
 
@JWoodcockMP
#SyriaVote
December 2, 2015


17:45
William Hague: Ground troops may be needed
 The former foreign secretary floated the idea as he backed bombing during a speech in the House of Lords. 


17:43
How will Labour's front bench vote?


17:29
VIDEO: The military firepower countries are using against Isil - in 60 seconds
 


17:10
Justin Welby: Bombing has met criteria for 'just war'
 Kate McCann, our senior political correspondent, files these words delivered by the Archbishop of Canterbury’s speech in the House of Lords. 
To my mind there are 3 components which currently need more emphasis and to some extent are missing. 
I am constantly reminded that this is global issue to which we are addressing local solutions. Isil is but one head of the Hyrda – religiously motivated extremism is not restricted to one part of the world. 
Secondly our bombing action plays into the extremism of Isil and other jihadi groups in the region springing from their apocalyptic theology. The totality of our actions must subvert that false narrative because by itself it will not work. 
If we act only against Isil globally and only in the way proposed so far, we we strengthen their resolve, increase their recruitment and encourage their sympathisers. Without a far more comprehensive approach we confirm their dreadful belief that what they are doing is the will of god. 
Thirdly it is essential to defeat Isil and other extremist narratives. The PM’s strategy and the speech of the noble lady… rightly recogonise that military action is only part of the answer … must include challenging Saudi Arabia and Qatar … Isil have drawn a false legitimisation (from their religious and legal practices).
The Most Rev Justin Welby, the Archbishop of Canterbury
  Photo: Keith Blundy / Aegies Associates
 
https://t.co/4I0MK24s7V
#SyriaVote
December 2, 2015


17:00
Miliband criticises attempts to 'demonise' Labour MPs
 
Attempts to demonise and target MPs over Syria by some who claim to be our supporters are intolerable and have no place in the Labour party.
December 2, 2015


16:55
Ed Miliband to vote against bombing
A strategy for the defeat of Isil depends crucially on ground troops and a political settlement, or the path towards a political settlement. That is because Isil cannot be defeated from the air alone, as even supporters of air strikes acknowledge, and because Isil’s success depends on the vacuum created from a multi-sided civil war. 
Neither an explanation of who the ground troops will be, nor the political settlement we are seeking in Syria, or how we get there, has been provided by the government. We would be going ahead without an adequate road-map or a clear strategy. 
The other case made for extending air strikes is that it will make us safer here at home. But I do not believe this case has been adequately made either. Isil is a network, not simply an organisation with a headquarters. What is more, nearly 3000 coalition air strikes have already been aimed at Syria and the case for what British air strikes will add is weak. 
Isil can only be defeated in Syria with an effective and comprehensive plan. That is what is required and the proposition fails to meet that test. That is why I will be voting against the motion. 
Ed Miliband, the former Labour leader
  Photo: CLARA MOLDEN
 
The decision to oppose the motion was finely balanced. Good friends and colleagues who I deeply respect will be supporting the motion.
December 2, 2015


16:50
Andy Burnham 'will not back air strikes'
 
@andyburnhammp
#SyriaVote
December 2, 2015


16:08
Conflicting aims of Syria's key players
 Key players in the conflict in Syria, like the US, Russia and Turkey, want different outcomes from their military involvement - The Telegraph explains what those aims are in 90 seconds. 
 


16:00
Labour divide widens as Corbyn's aide says France and Russia provoked attacks by bombing Isil
 Labour has been plunged into further division after Jeremy Corbyn's spokesman suggested that France and Russia provoked terror attacks by bombing Isil. 
 In his speech Mr Corbyn suggested that air strikes in Syria could increase the risk of a terror attack on British soil. 
 Mr Corbyn's spokesman subsequently went further, saying: "We have seen what has happened in France recently, we have seen what's happened to the Russians directly after their own involvement in the Syrian conflict." 
  Photo: PA
  Photo: PA
  Photo: PA
 Hilary Benn, the shadow foreign secretary who is in favour of air strikes, was quick to condemn the comments. 
 His spokesman said: "Daesh have already killed British citizens in Tunisia, blown up Lebanese citizens and anti-war campaigners in Turkey, and murdered journalists. 
 "They are a threat to all those that do not follow their repugnant creed. Inaction also has a cost in lives because they will continue to target our citizens." 


15:52
Key quotes from this afternoon's debate
 A selection of some of the key comments from MPs in the debate this afternoon. 
here
Dr Liam Fox MP
  Photo: GEOFF PUGH
Dr Liam Fox, former Conservative defence secretary
 "Our allies simply believe it is absurd for Britain to be part of a military campaign against Daesh but not in Syria. It is a patently absurd military position for us to hold and we have a chance to correct it today." 
Angus Robertson
Angus Robertson
Angus Robertson
Angus Robertson, the SNP's Westminster leader
 "Let's not repeat the mistakes of the past, let's not give the green light to military action without a comprehensive and credible plan to win the peace." 
John Baron MP
  Photo: Geoff Pugh for the Telegraph
John Baron, Conservative MP for Basildon and Billericay
 "Without a comprehensive strategy air strikes will simply reinforce the West's long-term failure in the region, generally, at a time when there are already too many aircraft chasing too few targets." 
Father of the House Sir Gerald Kaufman, Labour MP for Manchester Gorton
 "I am not going to be a party to killing innocent civilians for what will simply be a gesture." 


15:40
David Davis: Air strikes will not cut off the head of the snake
 David Davis says 'cutting off the head of the snake' is the "wrong metaphor for this kind of war". 
David Davis MP
  Photo: PAUL GROVER
 The Tory MP, who is opposed to air strikes, say that a bombing campaign will not defeat Isil. 
 Mr Davis says that for every target in the Iraq air strikes, Isil has recruited another person to their cause. 
 He has warned that Isil has $1billion of income passing over the Turkey-Syria border, something which Britain could put pressure on Turkey to close. 
 He also said that Saudi Arabia is sending "tens of millions of dollars into these sorts of organisations". 
 Mr Davis said Britain must "get our allies to do their job". 
 He said: "We should help our allies by destroying Isis, by doing it properly, not by symbolism." 


15:21
Britain looks set to go to war
 Britain looks set to go to war against the Islamic State terror group in Syria, as senior Labour sources conceded David Cameron will almost certainly win the support of the House of Commons for air strikes. 
 In a day of high drama at Westminster, the Prime Minister set out his case to MPs for military action against the "woman-raping, Muslim-murdering, medieval monsters" of Isil, who he warned were "plotting to kill us and to radicalise our children right now". 
 The Commons faced a choice between backing RAF action against the group in its Syrian stronghold or sitting back and waiting for a terrorist attack on Britain's streets, said Mr Cameron. Delay would simply give Isil time to grow stronger. 
 But Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, who is opposed to extending the bombing campaign, warned against an "ill thought-out rush to war". 
 Mr Cameron's arguments for military action "simply do not stack up", said the Labour leader, who was forced to offer his MPs a free vote amid deep divisions within the shadow cabinet. In a highly unusual move, shadow foreign secretary Hilary Benn will wrap up the debate for Labour with a speech in support of air strikes. 
Jeremy Corbyn speaks against airstrikes in Syria at the House of Commons, London
  Photo: Pixel8000
 After 10-and-a-half hours of debate, up to 50 Labour MPs are thought to be ready to vote with the Government this evening, delivering the Prime Minister a comfortable majority which will give the green light for bombing to begin within days. Three former Labour ministers - Alan Johnson, Dame Margaret Beckett and Yvette Cooper - were among MPs making early speeches in favour of extending military action. 
 Democratic Unionists and the Liberal Democrats - with eight MPs each - are also backing air strikes, together outweighing the voices of around a dozen Conservatives preparing to defy the party line to oppose action. 
Anti War protesters in Parliament Square, central London, As MP's debate and vote on Britain's involvement in air strikes in Syria
  Photo: i-Images
 At least 110 MPs from six different parties have already signed up to an amendment seeking to block air strikes, spearheaded by Tory John Baron and the Scottish National Party's Westminster leader Angus Robertson. 
 Labour insisted that public opinion was turning against air strikes after a spike in support in the wake of last month's slaughter in Paris. A senior party source told reporters: "It's expected the Government will win the vote today, but it has lost the argument." 


15:10
Tim Farron: My instincts are to be anti-war
 Tim Farron, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, has paid tribute to former leader Charles Kennedy, who died earlier this year, for his opposition to the 2003 Iraq War. But he also pointed out that Mr Kennedy pushed for action in Bosnia in the mid-1990s. 
 He admits that while is instincts are to be "anti-war" on this occasion he will be supporting the Syrian air strikes. 
 He said it is a "tough call" but "it is right on balance to take action against this evil death cult". 


14:48
As MPs debate, the protests continue
 A number of protests are taking place in towns and cities across the country today. 
Protesters and MSP's gather outside the Scottish Parliament to campaign against the UK deciding to bomb Syria
  Photo: Alamy
Protesters hold "Dont Bomb Syria" anti war protest signs outside Parliament as politicians start to debate and later vote on whether to take military action against Islamic State targets in Syria
  Photo: Alamy
Protesters hold "Dont Bomb Syria" anti war protest signs outside Parliament as politicians start to debate and later vote on whether to take military action against Islamic State targets in Syria
  Photo: Alamy


14:30
'We must not lay ourselves open to the unintended consequences of the fog of war'
 John Baron, a Conservative MP and member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, has set out a cross-party amendment which opposes the air strikes. 
Tory MP John Baron sets out opposition to air strikes
Tory MP John Baron sets out opposition to air strikes
Tory MP John Baron sets out opposition to air strikes
"And I suggest, just as in previous ill-advised Western interventions, a strong pattern emerges. Time and time again the executive makes a convincing case, often with the support of intelligence sources, and time and time again it turns out to be wrong.
"We have stood at this very point before. We should have no excuse for repeating our errors and setting out on the same tragic, misguided path once more."


14:19
Alan Johnson: Britain must act after UN resolution
 Alan Johnson, the veteran Labour MP, says that the UN resolution that was passed last week indicates the need for Britain to take military action. 
 He said it is right to extend Britain's operations from Iraq to Syria. 
 Mr Johnson said: "I believe Isis Daesh poses a real and present danger to British citizens and that its dedicated external operations unit is based not in Iraq, where the RAF is already fully engaged, but in Syria. This external operations unit is responsible for killing 30 British holidaymakers on a beach in Sousse and a British rock fan who perished along with 129 others in the Paris atrocity a few weeks ago. 
Alan Johnson MP
  Photo: Geoff Pugh
 "It is true that this unit could have moved out of Raqqa, but that is not what the intelligence services believe. In fact, just as al-Qaida needed the safe haven they created for themselves in Afghanistan to plan 9/11 and other atrocities, so Isil Daesh need their self-declared caliphate to finance, train, organise and recruit to their wicked cause." 


14:08
Margaret Beckett's passionate speech to support air strikes: We must help France
 Margaret Beckett, Labour's former foreign secretary, has delivered probably the most passionate of speeches so far in the debate. 
Margaret Beckett MP
  Photo: REUTERS
 She argued that Britain had a duty to help France and she posed the question: how would we feel if France refused to help us in the reverse situation? 
 Mrs Beckett said: "There are those not opposed in principle to action who doubt the efficacy of what is proposed. A coalition action that rests wholly on bombing, they say, will have little effect. Well, tell that to the Kosovans. Don’t forget, if there had been no bombing in Kosovo perhaps a million Albanian Muslim refugees would have been seeking refuge in Europe. 
 
 "Our French allies have asked us for such support, and I invite the House to consider how we would feel, and what we would say, if what took place in Paris had happened in London, if we had explicitly asked France for support and France had refused." 
 Her speech was widely praised by people watching the debate. 
 
Massive respect to margaret beckett mp.
December 2, 2015
 
A remarkable, consummately mature speech from Margaret Beckett.
December 2, 2015
 
#SyriaVote
December 2, 2015
 
#syriaairstrikes
#SyriaVote
December 2, 2015


13:49
Liam Fox: 'We should be under no illusions about the nature of the threat we face'
 Liam Fox, the former Conservative defence secretary, has been setting out why he backs air strikes: 
"We should be under no illusions about the nature of the threat we face. This is not like some of the armed political terrorists we have seen in the past. This is a fundamentally different threat. This is a group that does not seek accommodation. They seek domination."
Former Defence Secretary Liam Fox
  Photo: GEOFF PUGH FOR THE TELEGRAPH


13:39
No vote yet, but the RAF is ready to go
 RAF jets have taken off and landed at RAF Marham in Norfolk as they are apparently readied for deployment to RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus in preparation for air strikes on Isil in Syria. 
 
How soon will air strikes begin?
 If Parliament gives the green light, it could all happen very quickly. When the Commons voted for air strikes on IS in Iraq last year, RAF Tornado GR4 fighter bombers were in skies the very next day - although it was a further three days before they successfully located their first targets to hit and destroy. 
 Certainly military commanders have been planning for this for some time and will want to get off to an early start, without compromising their rules of engagement. 
What equipment will they use?
 RAF currently has eight GR4s stationed at RAF Akrotiri on Cyprus which have been attacking IS in Iraq and which will almost certainly carry out the first sorties against the extremists in Syria. Ministers have said that more jets will be deployed to the region - although details are still being worked out. Their efforts have been supplemented by unmanned RAF Predator drones armed with Hellfire missiles. 
 The GR4s carry a range of munitions including Paveway IV guided bombs and precision guided Brimstone missiles. 
A Royal Air Force Tornado takes off from RAF Lossiemouth in Scotland on Wednesday
  Photo: Reuters
What will be the impact of British air strikes?
 The overwhelming majority of coalition air strikes in both Iraq and Syria have been carried out by the US and experts do not expect the extension of British operations into Syria to fundamentally change the situation. 
 According to the latest US figures, the Americans have conducted 6,471 of the 8,289 air strikes carried out against IS - including all but 154 of 2,703 strikes on targets in Syria. 
 Nevertheless commanders argue that the addition of RAF war planes will make a considerable contribution to sustaining the air campaign which has been running for well over a year. 
 They also point to the particular capabilities the RAF has - particularly the Brimstone which is designed to hit small, fast-moving targets while causing the minimum damage to the surroundings which makes it especially suitable striking groups like IS. 
So what is the end game?
 Ministers accept that ultimately defeating IS will require "boots on the ground"- and certainly no Western power is talking at the moment about committing troops. The prospect of a regional force to take on the extremists also appears remote, and may depend on a political settlement to Syria's long-running civil war. Which all suggests that this is a problem that is going to be resolved any time soon. 


13:22
Labour MP Stella Creasy flees Commons chamber as her staff face off anti-war bullies
 Labour backbencher Stella Creasy said that even as the debate was taking place, her staff were facing abuse. 
 
#syria
December 2, 2015
 She also issued a warning to people who are "hassling" her team: 
 
#noshittakingmp
https://t.co/efLqT4gMRK
December 2, 2015


13:20
Key quotes from the debate so far
 With 157 MPs registered to speak in the Syria debate, it is an action-packed agenda in the Commons today. 
 Here are some of the most significant quotes from the debate so far. 
  Photo: PA
  Photo: PA
  Photo: PA
David Cameron
 "I respect people who come to a different view. I respect people who disagree" - Prime Minister responds to calls to apologise for comments made to Tory backbenchers, when he reportedly urged them not to vote with a "bunch of terrorist sympathisers". 
 "The question before the House today is how we keep the British people safe from the threat posed by Isil. This is not about whether we want to fight terrorism, it's about how best we do that. The question is this: do we work with our allies to degrade and destroy this threat and do we go after these terrorists in their heartlands, from where they are plotting to kill British people. Or do we sit back and wait for them to attack us." 
 "Everyone in this House should make up their mind on the arguments in this House and there's honour in voting for, there's honour in voting against." 
  Photo: PA
  Photo: PA
  Photo: PA
Jeremy Corbyn
 "For all members to take a decision that will put British servicemen and women in harm's way and almost inevitably lead to the deaths of innocents is a heavy responsibility. It must be treated with the utmost seriousness and respect given to those who make a different judgment about the right course of action to take." 
 "The logic of an extended air campaign is in fact mission creep and western boots on the ground, whatever the Prime Minister may say now about keeping British combat troops out of the way, are a real possibility." 
John Woodcock, Labour MP for Barrow and Furness
  Photo: PA
John Woodcock, moderate Labour MP
 "No-one on this side of the House will make a decision based on any such remarks nor will we be threatened from doing what we believe is the right thing, whether those threats come from online activists or indeed from our own despatch box." 
Alex Salmond speaking during the debate in the House of Commons 
  Photo: PA
Alex Salmond, former SNP leader
 "You are facing an amendment signed by 110 members of this House from six different political parties. I've examined that list very carefully and I cannot identify a single terrorist sympathiser among that list. Will you now apologise for your deeply insulting remarks?" 


13:15
Jeremy Corbyn: Cameron's 'terrorist sympathiser' comments 'demeans the office of Prime Minister'
 Jeremy Corbyn challenges David Cameron to apologise for his "terrorist sympathiser" comments telling him that he "demeans the office of Prime Minister" and "undermines the seriousness of the deliberations we are having today". 
 Despite being given an opportunity to intervene and apologise, David Cameron declined to do so. 
 
 The Prime Minister has faced a furious backlash from MPs after urging Tory backbenchers not to side with "terrorist sympathisers" in opposing air strikes. 
 He was repeatedly challenged about the comments, made in a private meeting of the Tory 1922 Committee as he set out the case for military action in the House of Commons. 
 Mr Cameron insisted that no-one was arguing about the need to tackle terrorism and there was "honour" in voting either to back or oppose air strikes against Islamic State in Syria. 
 He told MPs: "I respect people have come to a different view from the Government than the one I will set out today and those who vote accordingly." 
 Former Labour minister Caroline Flint was the first to call on Mr Cameron to apologise for his remarks, backed up by Labour's John Woodcock who told him it would be "helpful" to "retract his inappropriate comment". 
 Mr Cameron said: "Everyone in this House should make up their mind on the arguments in this House and there's honour in voting for, there's honour in voting against." 
 Former Scottish first minister Alex Salmond also urged Mr Cameron to apologise for his "deeply insulting remarks", telling him: "You are facing an amendment signed by 110 members of this House from six different political parties. 
 "I've examined that list very carefully and I cannot identify a single terrorist sympathiser among that list." 
 Angus Robertson, leader of the SNP in the Commons, used his speech to offer Mr Cameron a chance to apologise, an offer that he declined. 
 Fellow SNP MP Tasmina Ahmed-Sheikh also demanded that Mr Cameron withdraw his comments. 
Tasmina Ahmed-Sheikh, from the SNP, is the latest to call on David Cameron to withdraw his "terrorist sympathisers" comments.
  Photo: Pixel8000 


12:52
Revealed: Elaborate system Cameron uses to pass messages around the Commons
Ben Riley-Smith, our Political Correspondent, discusses how David Cameron shares messages with his MPs during the debate
 An elaborate set-up for passing messages from the Prime Minister throughout the Commons is in place for this packed debate. 
 David Cameron is whispering comments to Gavin Williamson, a Tory MP and the Prime Minister's Parliamentary Private Secretary, who is sitting behind him. 
 He is then either passing a written note along the benches or whispering to Michael Ellis, the Home Secretary's Parliamentary Private Secretary sitting behind him, to spread the message. 
 It has happened a few times already so far. Exactly what is being said, who knows. 


12:39
Jeremy Corbyn: Syria air strikes are 'another ill-fated twist in never-ending war on terror'
 Jeremy Corbyn has described David Cameron's plan for air strikes in Syria as "yet another ill-fated twist in the never-ending war on terror". 
Jeremy Corbyn speaks at the House of Commons debate on whether to authorise air strikes in Syria 
  Photo: BBC
 The Labour leader has used his Commons speech to say that the Prime Minister wants to "bomb first, talk later". 
 He described the plan for military action as a "reckless and half-baked intervention". 
 Mr Corbyn said the proposal "doesn't stack up" and has "failed its tests". 
Read Jeremy Corbyn's full speech to MPs.


12:35
Barely a cheer for Corbyn's speech
Ben Riley-Smith, our Political Correspondent, is watching Jeremy Corbyn deliver his speech
 Barely a cheer from the Labour benches as Jeremy Corbyn rises to the despatch box to set out the case against war. 
 To his right sits Hilary Benn - his shadow foreign secretary - who will outline the opposite argument from the same despatch box later today. 
 As Corbyn demands an apology for the Prime Minister's "terrorist sympathisers" comment both Tom Watson and Chris Bryant - two Labour frontbenchers - usher him up to his feet. Mr Cameron does not oblige. 
Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn speaking during the debate in the House of Commons on extending the bombing campaign against Islamic State to Syria
  Photo: PA


12:27
Catholic Church backs air strikes
John Bingham
John Bingham
John Bingham
John Bingham, our Social and Religious Affairs Editor, reports
 Britain’s most senior Roman Catholic cleric, Cardinal Vincent Nichols, has signalled support for air strikes against the so-called Islamic State as long as they are part of a wider strategy to create safe spaces. The Cardinal, who is leader of the Catholic Church in England and Wales, visited refugee camps in the region earlier this year where he met Christian and Muslim refugees. 
 He said he had come to the conclusion that a “proportionate military intervention” will be required to protect innocent people from “grave harm”. He pointed to comments from Pope Francis earlier this year in which he said the use of force was defensible to protect vulnerable people from “unjust aggression”. His position also chimes with that of the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby. But his stance will anger a significant number of Catholics - and other Christians – who have played active part in the campaign against military intervention. 
Archbishop Vincent Nichols
  Photo: DAVID ROSE FOR THE TELEGRAPH
 In a short statement issued by the Catholic Church, the Cardinal said: “Effective action is necessary to stop the grave harm being inflicted by ISIS on civilians. 
 “While indiscriminate violence is never justifiable, specific use of force to protect the vulnerable is defensible, if it is combined with sustained diplomatic and humanitarian efforts. As Pope Francis has said: where there is unjust aggression, it is licit to stop the aggressor. 
 “Earlier this year in April during a visit to Iraq, I met with a number of Iraqi refugees and those who are generously sheltering them, led by the Local Church. In conversation, I came to the conclusion that there are four necessary steps that are required to be taken in Iraq and Syria for refugees and displaced people to return home. The first is to stop ISIS along with those groups who perpetrate indiscriminate violence and that will require a proportionate military intervention; the second will be to make villages and towns habitable through clearing land mines and other IEDs along with the necessary reconstruction of houses and infrastructure; the third will be to re-establish the rule of law and finally to re-establish trust between the different peoples and faiths. This will take time and requires a long-term commitment to all whose home is in the region and seek to live in peace.” 


12:19
PM: We can't sit back and wait for a terror attack in the UK
 Mr Cameron said there was a "simple question" that MPs had to answer - whether to strike at IS in Syria or "sit back" and wait for a terror attack in the UK. 
 He told the Commons: "We face a fundamental threat to our security. Isil have brutally murdered British hostages, they have inspired the worst terrorist attack against British people since 7/7 on the beaches of Tunisia, and they have plotted atrocity after atrocity on the streets here at home. 
 "Since November last year our security services have foiled no less than seven different plots against our people. So this threat is very real and the question is this: Do we work with our allies to degrade and destroy this threat and do we go after these terrorists in their heartlands from where they are plotting to kill British people, or do we sit back and wait for them to attack us?" 
London's 7/7 attacks
  Photo: PA
 The Prime Minister called on MPs to "answer the call from our allies" and take action. 
 "My strong view is that this House should make clear that we will take up our responsibilities rather than pass them off and put our own national security in the hands of others." 
 One of the key planks of Mr Cameron's argument is that the RAF possesses an ability to launch precision strikes which other coalition forces lack. 
 He claimed the RAF could actually reduce the risk of civilian casualties in Syria if they took part in air strikes. 
 There had been no reports of civilians killed in RAF attacks in Iraq and "our precision weapons and the skill of our pilots make civilian casualties less likely". 


12:06
PM: No casualties from Iraq air strikes
 David Cameron insists that there have been no reports of civilian casualties from British air strikes in Iraq since they began one year and three months ago. But he admitted: "I'm not standing here saying there are no casualties in war." 


12:00
Cameron asked SEVEN times to apologise for 'terrorist sympathiser' comments
the controversial comments he made last night
 He has yet to apologise for the comments but MPs from around the Commons continue to demand one. 
 The Prime Minister urged Conservative MPs on Tuesday night not to vote with "a bunch of terrorist extremists" against military intervention. 
 In the Commons he insisted: "I respect people who come to a different view from the Government and the one I set out today." 


11:56
Cameron will refer to Isil as Da'esh
 David Cameron has said that he has listened to people's views and decided to refer to Isil as Da'esh as much as possible. 
 He said: "This evil death cult is frankly not a true representation of the religion of Islam." 
 He warned that they "attack us because of who we are not because of what we do". 


11:54
Cameron: We must keep British people safe
 David Cameron has appealed to MPs to back RAF air strikes against Islamic State in its Syrian heartlands to "keep the British people safe" from the threat of terrorist attack. 
 Opening a 10-hour Commons debate ahead of a vote tonight, the Prime Minister said the country had no choice but to engage in the struggle with IS - also referred to Isil, Isis or Daesh. 
 
 "The question before the House today is how we keep the British people safe from the threat posed by Isil," he told MPs. 
 "This is not about whether we want to fight terrorism, it's about how best we do that." 


11:46
Alex Salmond attacks PM for being 'deeply insulting'
 Alex Salmond, former SNP leader, has accused the Prime Minister of "deeply insulting" remarks after he described anti-strike MPs as "terrorist sympathisers". 
Alex Salmond speaking during the debate in the House of Commons 
  Photo: PA


11:44
John Woodcock accuses Jeremy Corbyn of threatening own MPs
 Moderate Labour MP John Woodcock has accused Jeremy Corbyn of threatening Labour MPs in one of the first remarks in the debate. 
 Quite remarkable that Labour MPs are openly attacking their leader amid such a serious debate. 


11:40
David Cameron sets out case for air strikes
 The Prime Minister has attempted to open up the debate but within seconds of speaking was shouted down for his "terrorist sympathiser" description of those who are against air strikes. 
 
 Labour MP Caroline Flint called upon him to apologise for the comments. He responded by say he "respects" all points of view. 
David Cameron speaks in the House of Commons
  Photo: BBC


11:36
157 speeches by MPs
 The Syria debate has just started and the Speaker John Bercow has revealed that 157 MPs have requested to speak. 
 It's going to be a long, long day! 
The House of Commons on Wednesday
  Photo: BBC
 Chris Bryant, the Shadow Leader of the House of Commons, has opened by insisting that the debate should be held over two days because many MPs are not going to get the chance to have their say. 
 Mr Bercow says he will not be making any announcements about a time limit "any time soon". 


11:28
Cameron's 'terrorist sympathisers' comment is 'hardening' SUPPORT for air strikes
 David Cameron describing those opposed to air strikes as "terrorist sympathisers" has actually hardened support amonh Labour MPs for military action, a Labour source has said. 
 It was thought that the comments, which the source described as "crass", would deter Labour MPs from backing the Prime Minister. 
 But it now appears that it has had the opposite effect with Labour MPs wanting to show they will make up their own mind regardless of bullying by anti-war activists or the controversial comments by Mr Cameron. 
 It could prove to be a disastrous night for Jeremy Corbyn who is trying to persuade his MPs to back his opposition to air strikes. 
 


11:20
Cameron to set out the case for air strikes
 We are just minutes away from David Cameron setting out his argument for air strikes to MPs as the 10-hour debate gets started. 
 Here is the first picture of the Prime Minister this morning as he left Downing Street to head to Parliament. 
David Cameron departs Downing Street on his way to the Houses of Parliament 
  Photo: Rupert Hartley 


11:01
Labour MP attacks Jeremy Corbyn's threat of 'no hiding place' for MPs who back air strikes
 John Woodcock, the moderate Labour MP, has criticised Jeremy Corbyn's warning to MPs that they have "no hiding place" if they back air strikes. 
 He warned that it was "really important" that Mr Corbyn and other activists think carefully about what they say. 
John Woodcock, Labour MP for Barrow and Furness
  Photo: PA
 Mr Woodcock, who will be backing air strikes, also criticised David Cameron for labelling those who oppose air strikes as "a bunch of terrorist sympathisers", labelling his comments as "unhelpful". 
 He said: "I hope he will make clear that he continues to have respect for those who have a principled view to vote no." 
 But he added that it would be unlikely to deter Labour MPs who are minded to support military action. 
 Another Labour MP who is likely to vote for air strikes is Tom Watson, the party's deputy leader. Here he is leaving his home this morning: 
Deputy Leader of the Labour Party Tom Watson leaving his London home to attend the House of Commons discussion 
  Photo: London News Pictures


10:48
Nicolas Sarkozy warns French air strikes led to increase in risk of attacks
Henry Samuel, our France correspondent, reports
 Nicolas Sarkozy on Wednesday warned that the French government under president François Hollande "underestimated" the risks of military)involvement in Syria on national security, saying French air strikes had increased the risk of attacks back home. 
 This from the man who ousted Gaddafi in Libya with no viable plan B! 
 The former centre-Right French president said: "When we took the decision to go to Syria, we didn't measure the consequences on homeland security. 
Former French president Nicolas Sarkozy
  Photo: VALERY HACHE/AFP
 "We underestimated the threat that would follow our intervention," which was "poorly calibrated" he told Europe 1 radio just four days before regional elections in France that could see gains for his Republicans party and the far-Right Front National. 
 Mr Sarkozy said that he had approved the principle of air strikes in Syria "because we cannot allow Syria to founder, because the Mediterranean is our suburb". 
 "But the fact of dropping bombs in Syria has led to a higher risk on national territory that should have been taken into account," he added. 


10:35
As Britain prepares to bomb Syria, Isil builds a 'retreat zone' in Libya
 As British MPs prepare to vote on bombing Syria, fresh evidence is emerging of chaos in Libya where Isil is establishing a new stronghold for recruits unable to reach the Middle East. 
Isil is now active in eastern Libya
  Photo: PA
 It has as many as 3,000 fighters in Libya and sees the country as a new strategic hub, according to a new United Nations report. 
 It said the group's rapid growth was fuelled by its notoriety in Iraq and Syria, as well as weak security structures in Libya, and risked bringing more sophisticated bombmaking techniques to Africa. 
Rob Crilly, in New York, has the full report.


10:30
Labour's Dan Jarvis: I'm backing air strikes
 Labour MP Dan Jarvis confirmed that he expects to vote in support of air strikes, telling Sky News: "In the end, it is my judgment that the action is the right thing for our country and for my constituents. 
 "I am incredibly mindful of the threat that Isil pose. Let's not forget what happened in Paris, let's not forget that 30 British holidaymakers were murdered on a beach in Tunisia, let's not forget that there have been seven foiled terror attacks on this country this year alone. 
Dan Jarvis, is former Parachute Regiment officer
  Photo: PA
 "We have to make a difficult judgment. I couldn't live with myself if I didn't do what I thought was the right thing for my constituents and for the country, and that's what I'm going to do." 
 Mr Jarvis, a former member of the Parachute Regiment, acknowledged that air power alone cannot defeat IS and said Mr Cameron needed to spell out to Parliament in detail his commitment to ensuring that a coherent ground force will be available to follow up on air strikes. 
 Many MPs had "concerns" about the PM's claim that 70,000 rebel fighters are in place on the ground, he said. 


10:18
Boris Johnson: PM made 'extremely good point' when talking about 'terrorist sympathisers'
 Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, has defended the Prime Minister's description of those who reject air strikes as a "bunch of terrorist sympathisers". 
The Mayor of London Boris Johnson (right) gives a reply to a question from a listener, as Ken Livingstone looks on
  Photo: John Stillwell/PA
 Speaking on his weekly LBC radio show, he said: 
"To say that British foreign policy controversies can be called a "cause" in which people have "laid down their lives" is to use the language of the terrorists themselves and play their game. It was sad that he [Livingstone] used those words. In the minds of many impressionable Muslims it will have given the impression that he was justifying or excusing those murders, that action. 
"It is playing their game, it is using their langauge, it is advancing their cause. That is what the Prime Minister meant. I think he was making an extremely good point."


10:12
The end of 'Isil'
 Today the Prime Minister will abandon his use of the term Isil or IS and instead refer to the terrorist group as Da'esh, the Arabic acronym. 
 It has been reported that Downing Street has said it was "persuaded by those who do not think we should use the English words 'Islamic' and 'State' to describe them". 


10:02
Corbyn urged to kick out abusive members
 A Labour MP has called on Jeremy Corbyn to expel party members who abuse and threaten parliamentarians over the vote on military action in Syria. 
 John Mann said individual MPs were facing an "appalling" level of bullying via social media and email, including threats to orchestrate their deselection if they vote in favour of air strikes. 
Former minister Diana Johnson published an email sent to Labour MPs warning they could face deselection if they did not oppose air strikes
  Photo: PA
 The email, purporting to be sent by a party member, warned that this was "the least the Labour Party members will do to try to wash the blood from their hands of the innocent civilians which the bombs will surely kill". 
 Hull North MP Ms Johnson said she was "saddened" by the message, adding: "It is important to remember that Labour MPs have a free vote and are being asked to do what they believe is right on Wednesday." 
 Mr Mann highlighted messages sent on Twitter branding one fellow MP "a warmongering piece of crap" and calling for "a final solution to purge Blairite scum" like former leadership candidate Liz Kendall from the party. 
Liz Kendall has been attacked by abusive members
  Photo: Mirrorpix
 Those sending such abuse were "not suitable to remain Labour Party members", he said. 
 Ms Kendall responded to the abuse on Twitter with the defiant message: "You don't frighten me 'comrade'." 
 Replying to a message apparently sent by a supporter of the left-wing Momentum group urging members to put pressure on MPs, she wrote: "I will listen to all views, but in the end I will decide according to my conscience and the evidence - not pressure." 
 One of the messages which Bassetlaw MP Mr Mann complained about was sent from an account claiming to belong to a "special adviser" to Mr Corbyn called Wesley Brown, which has previously been exposed as a fake. Other messages are anonymous or issued under false names. 
 But Mr Mann said that some of those responsible were clearly identifiable, and called on Mr Corbyn to discipline any who were genuine party members. 
 Mr Mann said: "The level of abuse over the last four months is on a totally, totally different scale from anything ever before. It is directly linked to people purporting to support Jeremy. 
John Mann MP says Corbyn should kick out abusive members
  Photo: GEOFF PUGH 
 "He should remove this intolerant minority. They have no place in a progressive left-wing party. None of them have been disciplined yet, never mind expelled and he should start doing so." 
 Mr Mann said he was on the receiving end of abuse despite making clear he will vote against bombing, blaming inaccurate lists of supposed rebels being circulated among opponents of air strikes. 
 "It is deliberate bullying," he said. "I have received tweets and emails, some are random but some seem to be orchestrated by groups both inside and outside the party. 
 "Threats of deselection are at the mild end of it. There is every kind of name-calling you can think of. 
 "There is no place in the Labour Party for people who are going to abuse others in the run-up to an important debate and vote." 
 Mr Corbyn has previously insisted he is not seeking the deselection of MPs critical of his leadership, and used his speech to Labour's conference in September to call on activists inside and outside the party to "cut out the personal attacks, the cyberbullying and especially the misogynistic abuse online". 


09:39
Hilary Benn heads to Parliament for an almighty clash with leader Jeremy Corbyn
 Hilary Benn, the shadow foreign secretary, has just left his home in West London to head to Parliament. 
 He will defy his leader Jeremy Corbyn's opposition to the air strikes by speaking in favour of David Cameron's plan. 
 Yesterday Mr Corbyn dismissed the concerns of the majority of his shadow cabinet, describing the MPs who support military action as a "small number" of "diehards". 
Labour Shadow Foreign Secretary Hilary Benn leaving his home in West London on Wednesday morning
  Photo: London News Pictures
 Speaking on BBC Radio at lunchtime on Tuesday, Mr Corbyn singled out Mr Benn and said that his position on air strikes would mean innocent people losing their lives. 
 “We’re going to kill people,” he said. “We’re going to kill people in their homes by our bombs. I think we should be very careful about that.” 
 However, a spokesman for Mr Benn responded: “Inaction has a cost in lives too.” 
 
 Mr Benn at 5pm on Tuesday held his own meeting to “rally support” for backing Mr Cameron in the Commons vote. 
 One MP said that Mr Benn is “running a shadow operation” and that he is now being urged to spearhead a coup to oust Mr Corbyn. 


09:30
Alex Salmond: PM's case for Syria 'disintegrates like dust'
 The Prime Minister's case for air strikes in Syria "disintegrates like dust" under scrutiny, according to the SNP's foreign affairs spokesman Alex Salmond. 
Mr Salmond said: "I think the Prime Minister's language is an indication of desperation, because he sees that the support he thought he had is starting to slip away as his case for extending air strikes into Syria starts to disintegrate on examination."
  Photo: BBC
 Speaking to BBC Scotland's Good Morning Scotland programme, Mr Salmond said: "I think the Prime Minister's language is an indication of desperation, because he sees that the support he thought he had is starting to slip away as his case for extending air strikes into Syria starts to disintegrate on examination." 
 "Some of the Prime Minister's claims start to disintegrate like dust, like the claim for example that there are 70,000 available ground troops who are going to step into the vacuum which will be released if Daesh is forced to concede ground in Syria," the former first minister said. 
 "It is just not true, it is not credible. As these claims start to disintegrate, the support for this action starts to ebb away." 


09:23
Protesters target Labour MP Stella Creasy
 Protesters hoping to persuade Labour MPs to vote against air strikes today targeted MP Stella Creasy last night. 
Stella Creasy MP
  Photo: Susannah Ireland/Eyevine
 Ms Creasy is among a number of MPs who still remain undecided on which way to vote. 
 Last night she said that she was "still not satisified with the answers [I] have been getting". 
 There had been reports that protesters had gone to her home but these have since been called into question. 
 
pic.twitter.com/ZJFeRReoHr
December 2, 2015
 
Getting hopefully true reports that protest was not outside her home. Doesn't make the post or the people defending it less reprehensible.
December 2, 2015


08:56
Labour denounce David Cameron's attack on 'terrorist sympathiser' MPs as a 'desperate slur'
 David Cameron did not intend to brand all opponents of air strikes against Islamic State in Syria as "terrorist sympathisers", Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has said. 
The Prime Minister infuriated Labour after he urged Conservative MPs not to go through the division lobbies with people who he described as a "bunch of terrorist sympathisers"
 A spokesman for Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn denounced his comments - made last night at a private gathering of Tory MPs - as a "desperate slur" which demeaned his office. 
 But Mr Hammond insisted they were not aimed at long-standing opponents of war like Mr Corbyn, whose views he said were "obviously sincerely held". 
Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs Philip Hammond arrives at Downing Street for a cabinet meeting 
  Photo: 2015 Getty Images
 He suggested Mr Cameron was thinking of former London mayor Ken Livingstone - a close ally of Mr Corbyn - who caused outrage with his recent claim that the 7/7 London bombers "gave their lives" for a cause they believed in. 
 "I suspect that he was referring to some high profile comments that people like Ken Livingstone have recently made which, in my view, are extremely ill-advised and do betray a long strand of sympathy for people that, frankly, most of us would have no sympathy for," he told ITV1's Good Morning Britain. 
 
 "I don't think the Prime Minister was intending to characterise the great majority of people who are against us in this debate as in any way holding those views. 
 "We know that many people on the other side of this debate will have wrestled long and hard with their consciences." 


08:41
Jeremy Corbyn heads to Parliament
 Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has just left his North London home to head to Parliament. 
 He gave a smile to waiting photographers before what will be a big day for him as he sets out to MPs why he will be voting against air strikes. 
Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn leaves his home in north London on Wednesday morning
  Photo: PA
 The 10-hour debate will kick off at 11.30am with David Cameron setting out his plan. 
 Mr Cameron can expect to win the vote comfortably after Mr Corbyn gave a free vote to his MPs, which could result in around 60 of them voting for air strikes. 
Bombing votes


08:22
George Galloway: MPs who vote to bomb Syria will face the consequences
 The former Respect MP and London mayoral candidate George Galloway has warned, in an interview with LBC radio, that there will be "repercussions" for MPs who vote to bomb Syria. 


07:46
MP receives dead baby photo through post
 Peter Kyle, the Hove MP elected in May, was sent a picture of a dead baby through the post. 
 Mr Kyle, who supports strikes and was an aid worker during the Bosnian war, said that the picture was designed to intimidate him. 
 He added: "People have put deep thought and a lot of anguish into this decision and are taking a very principled stance. We need to have respect for each other’s views on this." 


07:45
Protesters criticise Corbyn's free vote
 Jeremy Corbyn’s decision to offer a free vote was last night attacked by some left-wing activists. The Stop the War coalition called it “deplorable”. 
 Stop the War held a march in Westminster last night urging Labour MPs to vote against military action. 
 
'Stop the War' supporters protest against plans to extend the UK air strikes against Isil from Iraq into Syria, in Parliament Square, London
  Photo: LNP
Crowds gather in London
  Photo: Getty Images
A socialist party members holds up a placard
  Photo: Getty Images


07:44
Key Labour figures back air strikes
 In another blow to Jeremy Corbyn, his shadow defence secretary Maria Eagle came out in support of bombing and said: “The first duty of any Government is to defend the UK, its people and its way of life and democracy from attack by those who would destroy us.” 
Maria Eagle, the shadow defence secretary
Maria Eagle, the shadow defence secretary
Maria Eagle, the shadow defence secretary
 And Dan Jarvis – who served multiple tours of Iraq and Afghanistan and is considered to be another leadership contender – invoked Labour leaders' support for joining the fight against Nazism in 1939 in declaring his support for air strikes. 
 He told the New Statesman: "When the War Cabinet met in 1939, it was ministers from our party – Clement Attlee and Arthur Greenwood – that tipped the balance in favour of resisting Nazism. Isil are the fascists of our time.” 


07:43
Labour MPs receive threats of deselection if they back Syria air strikes
 Labour MPs were being sent emails from activists opposed to the war. 
 One email, seen by The Telegraph, which was sent to more than 100 Labour MPs, stated: “We the Labour Party members will then deselect those Labour Party MPs who voted for the bombing of Syria because these MPs caused the blood on the hands of all Labour Party members. It is as simple as that.” 
Crowds gather in London
  Photo: Getty Images
 Peter Kyle, the Hove MP elected in May, was sent a picture of a dead baby through the post. 
 Mr Kyle, who supports strikes and was an aid worker during the Bosnian war, said that the picture was designed to intimidate him. 
 "As somebody who has worked in the field as an aid worker I don’t need to see that photograph to understand how shocking what can happen in conflict is," he told The Telegraph. 
 "People have put deep thought and a lot of anguish into this decision and are taking a very principled stance. We need to have respect for each other’s views on this." 


07:39
Corbyn's allies accused of 'bullying and intimidating' Labour MPs over vote
Jeremy Corbyn
Jeremy Corbyn
Labour
Labour
 The Telegraph has been told that numerous Labour MPs have been left in tears after being warned by hard-left activists that they will be “murdering women and babies” by backing military action. 
 Others have been threatened with deselection and one MP was sent a picture of a dead baby alongside a message demanding they vote against strikes, one senior Labour source said. 
Labour MPs considering backing Mr Cameron
Labour MPs considering backing Mr Cameron
  Photo: Geoff Pugh/The Telegraph
  Photo: Geoff Pugh/The Telegraph
  Photo: Geoff Pugh/The Telegraph
 The Labour leader’s office was on Tuesday accused of leaking to anti-war activists the names and contact details of MPs undecided about whether to back air strikes. 
 Senior Labour sources said that the number of Labour MPs planning to back military action may have halved due to the tactics being employed by Mr Corbyn. 
 At the weekend, more than 100 MPs had been expected to back plans to bomb Isil in Syria but that number has steadily fallen amid pressure from Mr Corbyn and his allies. 
 Labour sources currently predict around 60 MPs will back Mr Cameron’s position. However, there were last night warnings that this figure could be cut to as little as 30 because of the campaign being waged by Mr Corbyn’s office. 
 Around 10 to 15 Conservative rebels are expected to vote against military action. 
 One Labour MP subjected to sustained abuse at the hands of activists said: “It is a systematic and substantial effort to bully moderate Labour MPs into voting against military action. This is being aided and abetted by Corbyn’s office. 
 “They are circulating the contact details of MPs who are undecided.” 


07:30
David Cameron attacks Labour's 'terrorist sympathisers' who dare to vote against air strikes
Jeremy Corbyn
Jeremy Corbyn
 The shift in tone came as Mr Cameron prepared to host a 10 hour Commons debate, setting out the plan to attack Isil. 
 The first jets could be in the air over Syria as early as Thursday morning if, as expected, Mr Cameron secures the votes necessary for air strikes. 
 The Prime Minister will at 11.30am today stand up in the House of Commons and urge MPs to support military action in order to avoid an armed attack by Isil jihadists on the streets of Britain. 
David Cameron
  Photo: Rex Features
 Last night Mr Cameron addressed Tory MPs at a meeting of the 1922 committee. 
 He said: "You don't want to walk through the lobbies with Jeremy Corbyn and a bunch of terrorist sympathisers." 
 He added: "If you, like me, agree that Isil needs to be defeated, you should not be sitting on your hands." 
 "They want to bomb us now, they would have liked to bomb us already." 
 "I don't want to win this on the basis of Labour votes. I want to win this on the basis of Conservative votes." 
telegraph.co.uk
telegraph.co.uk
telegraph.co.uk
telegraph.co.uk
Follow @telegraphnews

        .newGigyaShare { display: none !important; }
    
Top news galleries
Bizarre smuggling attempts
 

Anything and everything from animals, drugs and wafer biscuits

Starbucks' secret menu - the drinks you didn't know you can ask for
 

There are over 87,000 different drink combinations at Starbucks, according to 
  the coffee retailer’s website. How many of them do you know? From flu 
  remedies to Harry Potter-inspired beverages, we highlight the weird and the 
  wonderful brews and infusions. 

Comments
This is what the Monopoly board would look like today
 

The Monopoly board game went on sale 80 years ago... but which properties 
  would have been chosen if the board was designed today? Move over, Mayfair – 
  there's a new top square in town.

Comments
Let it Glow!
 
In pics: 
Celebrity Sightings: 2 December
 
In pics:
Harry in South Africa
 
In pics: 
ICC Test Team of the Year 2015 - in pictures
 

The official ICC Test team of 2015 contains no less than three England players 
  - and a surprising captain... 

Comments
Pictures of the day
 

Today: An Eeyore going 'nee-naw', Flavor Flav and Ho-Ho-homes

The best British political insults
 
 Culture
 Culture

A hilarious history of political insults and putdowns, from Churchill to 
  Corbyn 

World AIDS Day
 
In pics:
Advertisement
How we moderate
telegraphuk
comments powered by Disqus.
Disqus
Telegraph on Facebook
Middle East news»
Middle East news»
Israel news
Iran news
Iraq news
Dubai news
Egypt news
Advertisement
Latest Video»
Latest Video»
MPs give green light for UK air strikes on Syria
San Bernardino shooting: Emotional Dad's daughter 'hiding'
US, Russia, Turkey, France - who has what aim in Syria?
The firepower facing Isil in Syria
Top five philanthropists in the world
The 12 times Cameron knocks back apology calls
 
Foreign correspondents on Twitter»
Foreign correspondents on Twitter»
Advertisement
Advertisement
Sponsored Features»
Sponsored Features»

            Loading
        

        var optaTeamLinkingCallback = function () {
            var teamMapping = {
                "team-3": "arsenal",
                "team-7": "aston-villa",
                "team-57": "watford",
                "team-8": "chelsea",
                "team-31": "crystal-palace",
                "team-11": "everton",
                "team-45": "norwich-city",
                "team-13": "leicester-city",
                "team-14": "liverpool",
                "team-43": "manchester-city",
                "team-1": "manchester-united",
                "team-4": "newcastle-united",
                "team-91": "bournemouth",
                "team-20": "southampton",
                "team-110": "stoke-city",
                "team-56": "sunderland",
                "team-80": "swansea-city",
                "team-6": "tottenham-hotspur",
                "team-35": "west-bromwich-albion",
                "team-21": "west-ham"
            };

            var rugbyTeamMapping = {
                "team-800": "argentina",
                "team-100": "australia",
                "team-953": "canada",
                "team-550": "england",
                "team-954": "fiji",
                "team-650": "france",
                "team-2850": "georgia",
                "team-600": "ireland",
                "team-952": "italy",
                "team-3000": "japan",
                "team-2900": "namibia",
                "team-850": "newzealand",
                "team-951": "romania",
                "team-950": "samoa",
                "team-700": "scotland",
                "team-900": "southafrica",
                "team-750": "tonga",
                "team-2800": "uruguay",
                "team-2950": "usa",
                "team-500": "wales"
            };

            for (var team in teamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/football/teams/' + teamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
            for (var team in rugbyTeamMapping) {
                $('.fixtures dl.matches dt.match span.' + team).
                        add('.standings-container table tr.' + team + ' td.team').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .team-name').
                        add('.fixtures-plus table tr.scoreline td.' + team + ' .relative-holder').each(function () {
                            var textNode = $(this).contents().filter(function () {
                                return ( this.nodeType === 3 );
                            }).last();

                            var link = document.createElement('a');
                            var text = document.createTextNode(textNode.text());
                            link.appendChild(text);
                            link.setAttribute('class', 'opta-team-linking');
                            link.setAttribute('href', 'http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sport/rugbyunion/international/' + rugbyTeamMapping[team]);
                            link.onclick = function () {
                                var menuSec = "opta-" + $('meta[name="GSASectionUniqueName"]').attr("content");
                                $.cookie('tmg_navPos', menuSec, { path: '/', domain: 'telegraph.co.uk'});
                            };

                            textNode.replaceWith(link);
                        });
            }
        };

        
Featured Advertising
World Travel
World Travel
Property
Property
Shopping
Shopping

            Loading
        
Learn about advertising on Telegraph.co.uk
Learn about advertising on Telegraph.co.uk
Search for a property
Search for a property
Learn about advertising on Telegraph.co.uk
Learn about advertising on Telegraph.co.uk
SPONSORED FEATURES
 
				Books
 

                                Find out why David Baldacci has sold 110 million books

                                View
 
				Business
 

                                Discover the dos and don’ts of leading small teams

                                View
 
				In the Heart of the Sea
 

                                Six things you didn’t know about Chris Hemsworth

                                View
 
				Telegraph Tickets
 

                                View the cheapest theatre tickets and the best deals available from Telegraph Tickets.

                                View
Back to top
Back to top
Back to top
HOME
HOME
News
News
UK News
UK News
Politics
Politics
Long Reads
Long Reads
Wikileaks
Wikileaks
Jobs
Jobs
World News
World News
Europe
Europe
USA
USA
China
China
Royal Family News
Royal Family News
Celebrity news
Celebrity news
Dating
Dating
Finance
Finance
Education
Education
Defence
Defence
Weird News
Weird News
Editor's Choice
Editor's Choice
Financial Services
Financial Services
Pictures
Pictures
Video
Video
Matt
Matt
Alex
Alex
Comment
Comment
Blogs
Blogs
Crossword
Crossword
Contact us
Contact us
Privacy and Cookies
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Advertising
Fantasy Football
Fantasy Football
Tickets
Tickets
Announcements
Announcements
Reader Prints
Reader Prints
Follow Us
Follow Us
Apps
Apps
Epaper
Epaper
Expat
Expat
Promotions
Promotions
Subscriber
Subscriber
Syndication
Syndication
© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2015
Terms and Conditions
Today's News
Today's News
Archive
Archive
Style Book
Style Book
Weather Forecast
Weather Forecast
