Bubble Football / Soccer - What You Should Know HubPages HubPages Sign In Sign In Help Help 11 HubPages HubPages » Sports and Recreation Sports and Recreation » Team Sports Team Sports » Football ( Soccer ) Football ( Soccer ) Football ( Soccer ) Bubble Football / Soccer - What You Should Know Bubble Football / Soccer - What You Should Know Bubble Football / Soccer - What You Should Know Updated on January 13 , 2014 For those who are tempted to wrap family members in cotton wool or bubble wrap before allowing them on the sports field , here 's a perfect sport for you ! 
Bubble Soccer loosely follows the rules of traditional football where two teams compete to kick goals - without ever being allowed to touch the ball with their hands . 
Bubble Soccer Suits in Team Colours See all 7 photos Source : Photo by LongTimeMother Bubble Soccer or Bubble Football ? 
Do you call this game soccer or football in your part of the world ? 
See results without voting The Difference Between Soccer and Football in a Bubble In this context , Bubble Soccer and Bubble Football are one and the same . 
In the UK and Europe , football is what Australians and Americans tend to call soccer . 
David Beckham plays it ... so whatever you call the game Beckham plays . 
put the word bubble before it and people will know what you mean . 
Hands free ! 
See all 7 photos Source : Photo by LongTimeMother The Role of the Referee/Umpire in Bubble Soccer Any soccer umpire has to be fit . 
There 's lots of running as the ball makes its way from one end of the soccer field to the other , but bubble soccer demands much more from the referee than the average football game . 
As the only person on the field with free hands , the role of the ref includes retrieving the ball . 
When the ball is kicked off the field , the ref chases it and reintroduces it into play . 
As bubble soccer becomes more widely known and attracts crowds of observers along the sidelines , there may be less leg work involved in ball retrieval but in its infancy when there 's nobody around to stop the ball , bubble soccer is hard work for the referee . 
Note : Note : Bubble Football in the UK Lee Moseley from Bracknell in Berkshire is credited as the brain behind the bubble - in the UK , at least . 
Apparently Lee worked as an asbestos surveyor but left his job to set up a bubble business . 
His company makes sports bubbles available throughout the UK and he is currently setting up competitions and events throughout Britain . 
Lee and his wife deserve every success . 
After being turned down by potential investors , they financed the new business themselves . 
Their financial bubble shows no sign of popping ! 
: ) See all 7 photos Source : Photo by LongTimeMother Where Bubble Football Began Bubble soccer - or bubble football - is currently played around the world including Australia , Austria , Denmark , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Britain and the USA . 
Credit for the craze goes to a Norwegian television sports show clip that was featured on YouTube in 2011 and has attracted more than 3 million hits . 
Bubble Soccer on a Full Size Football Field Who Should n't Try Bubble Football ? 
If you are overweight , there is a possibility you might get 'stuck ' in the bubble . 
If you are unfit , be careful not to exhaust yourself . 
The ball is quite heavy so you will need strength and stamina . 
Those who suffer vertigo . 
Balls roll . 
Think twice before joining a team if you suffer from claustrophobia . 
Bubble Soccer in the USA The Chicago Bubble Soccer League was quick to tap into the fun and has proven extremely popular in the US . 
Other states including Florida have begun their own competitions . 
I am told that American bubble soccer sticks quite closely to the traditional rules of soccer and has seven players on each team with two subs . 
Like most countries , the US offers events for co-ed teams plus male-only competitions . 
Entering the Bubble See all 7 photos Source : Photo by LongTimeMother The Real Rules of Soccer The Rules Of Soccer - The 17 Laws Of The Game How and Why to Adapt Soccer Rules to Bubble Play For adults playing traditional soccer , the length of the playing field should be between 100 and 130 yards . 
FIFA rules also stipulate the width should be between 50 and 100 yards . 
Each 'half ' is expected to last 45 minutes without interruption ... and the half-time interval should not be longer than 15 minutes . 
To be allowed to play traditional soccer , teams must consist of between seven and eleven players . 
Now let 's assess how the three basic rules outlined above apply to Bubble Soccer . 
Spending 45 minutes trying to cover a playing field of such large dimensions will exhaust even the most fit player who dons a bubble to play . 
And 22 bubble-wearing players on one field trying to keep track of one small ball sounds like a recipe for disaster . 
You might as well remove the ball and just have a competition to drop as many of your opponents as possible . 
lol . 
In theory , respecting the 17 Laws of Soccer sounds great . 
In reality , however , it is too big an expectation . 
A smaller number of players on a smaller field for a shorter time makes better sense . 
More fun and less risk of physical discomfort and health issues . 
A Different Kind of Goal See all 7 photos Source : Photo by LongTimeMother What is Bubble Football Really Like ? 
Okay , based on feedback from actual players , here 's the good news ... You 'll laugh yourself silly . 
It does n't hurt when you hit the ground . 
Most of the time you can get back on your feet without help . 
It is extraordinarily fulfilling when you manage to kick the ball . 
By the end of a game , you know you 've had a good workout . 
never Did I mention that you 'll laugh yourself silly ? 
Bubble Soccer Player Going Nowhere See all 7 photos Source : Photo by LongTimeMother Before deciding to get into that bubble ... To be fair , I should also offer you the negative feedback . 
The bubble is hot . 
The bubble is smelly . 
It is tempting to wash the last player 's sweat out with a hose before climbing in . 
Despite looking as light as a , well , bubble , it is heavier than one would expect . 
Claustrophobia is definitely an issue for some . 
And then there 's more laughing and the warning that you 'll laugh yourself silly . 
: ) What a bubble hug looks like ... See all 7 photos Source : Photo by LongTimeMother Yes , the positives definitely outweigh the negatives , and the bright new look of bubbles makes the game even more interesting for spectators . 
I could happily watch bubble soccer for hours . 
It 's much more fun than watching cricket or tennis . 
lol . 
. 
How do you feel about Bubble Soccer ? 
Would you put yourself inside a big plastic bubble and try to kick a ball ? 
See results without voting © 2014 LongTimeMother © 2014 LongTimeMother © 2014 LongTimeMother More in this Series Help for New Hubbers Help for New Hubbers How to get your Hub past 'Pending ' to be featured . 
How to get your Hub past 'Pending ' to be featured . 
If you are hoping to make money from HubPages , you 'll need to get your work past the 'pending ' stage and featured for the world to see . 
Here are my tips for new HP members . 
Gun Control Issues Gun Control Issues New Gun Laws and Gun Control for Gun Owners of America New Gun Laws and Gun Control for Gun Owners of America As debate continues in the US about gun control , here 's an Australian gun owner 's thoughts on the issue . 
Recommended Hubs 11 comments Go to last comment Go to last comment FlourishAnyway Level 7 Commenter This looks fun , although I 'm sure I 'd be like the fella in your photo who is stuck upside down with his feet in the air . 
I bet it reduces the risks normally associated with the game . 
The thought of coating myself in the previous player 's sweat is nasty , so I 'm glad you gave both pros and cons . 
This looks fun , although I 'm sure I 'd be like the fella in your photo who is stuck upside down with his feet in the air . 
I bet it reduces the risks normally associated with the game . 
The thought of coating myself in the previous player 's sweat is nasty , so I 'm glad you gave both pros and cons . 
LongTimeMother Hub Author Hello FA . 
It could feel like a very long time waiting for one of your team mates to spot you and bump you over . 
I 'm not a fan of being suspended upside down and the bubble is too heavy at my age and stage in life . 
However I do love watching bubble sports . 
Sometimes a good laugh is just what the doctor ordered . 
: ) Hello FA . 
It could feel like a very long time waiting for one of your team mates to spot you and bump you over . 
I 'm not a fan of being suspended upside down and the bubble is too heavy at my age and stage in life . 
However I do love watching bubble sports . 
Sometimes a good laugh is just what the doctor ordered . 
: ) teaches12345 Level 4 Commenter I am not good at sports in general , but this looks like fun for those who like challenges and perhaps it would be safe for me to at least try . 
Looks like the people in the video are really into the novelty . 
It 's in a foreign language , but I could still understand the video flow . 
I am not good at sports in general , but this looks like fun for those who like challenges and perhaps it would be safe for me to at least try . 
Looks like the people in the video are really into the novelty . 
It 's in a foreign language , but I could still understand the video flow . 
LongTimeMother Hub Author lol . 
I 'd love to hear about it if you do have a try , teaches12345 . 
The bubble suits they use here come further down than the bubbles in the video . 
Seems to offer a bit more protection for the knees . 
As far as sports go , however , being wrapped in a big plastic bubble would have to offer some level of protection . 
I 'd try it if I was a bit younger . 
: ) Writer Fox Level 2 Commenter I 've never heart of this sport before but it looks like so much fun ! 
Where do you buy the bubbles ? 
I 've never heart of this sport before but it looks like so much fun ! 
Where do you buy the bubbles ? 
Peter 19 months ago How can I find out about running a league ? 
How can I find out about running a league ? 
LongTimeMother Hub Author Hello Writer Fox and Peter . 
I can see I 'll need to spend some time answering your questions . 
Where on the planet do you live , Peter ? 
Michael Lansley 19 months ago In the US , www.nationalbubblesoccer.com They sell all necessary equipment and anything else you may need to start a league such as liability insurance . 
They also refer players to your league , offer league support , and get your league ranked on Google LongTimeMother Hub Author Thanks for the tip , Michael . 
That will be useful to readers in the US . 
: ) Thanks for the tip , Michael . 
That will be useful to readers in the US . 
: ) geeserabbit 18 months ago Great article ! 
In response to Peter 's question , if you 're from Canada , I am currently selling these suits and would love to help you get started on your league . 
Where can I buy these suits ? 
10 or more ? 
17 months ago Answer to mviessman @ gmail.com Answer to mviessman @ gmail.com Sign in sign up 0 of 8192 characters used 0 of 8192 characters used Post Comment No HTML is allowed in comments , but URLs will be hyperlinked . 
Comments are not for promoting your Hubs or other sites . 
LongTimeMother MORE BY THIS AUTHOR How I Grow and Harvest Organic Chia Seeds How I Grow and Harvest Organic Chia Seeds How US gun owners can prepare for new gun laws . 
How US gun owners can prepare for new gun laws . 
I Hate My Dad - Trouble at home I Hate My Dad - Trouble at home Popular EDITOR 'S CHOICE Football ( Soccer ) Football ( Soccer ) Top 10 Most Hated Football Players Top 10 Most Hated Football Players Thomas Swan Football ( Soccer ) Football ( Soccer ) Top 40 Muslim Football Players Top 40 Muslim Football Players ThoughtsWriter Football ( Soccer ) Football ( Soccer ) Top 10 Best Football Managers In The World Top 10 Best Football Managers In The World Thomas Swan Related Football ( Soccer ) Football ( Soccer ) The Origin of the Word 'Soccer ' The Origin of the Word 'Soccer ' Peter V Football ( Soccer ) Football ( Soccer ) Basic Soccer Rules for Beginners Basic Soccer Rules for Beginners Veronica Roberts Football ( Soccer ) Football ( Soccer ) How To Run A 5 A Side Football ( Soccer ) Tournament How To Run A 5 A Side Football ( Soccer ) Tournament Chris Jenkinson Football ( Soccer ) Football ( Soccer ) Soccer : Important areas of the soccer field Soccer : Important areas of the soccer field SpiffyD Football ( Soccer ) Football ( Soccer ) Interesting facts about the 2014 Brazil World Cup Interesting facts about the 2014 Brazil World Cup Artois52 Click to Rate This Article How good is this article ? 
Please rate this article using the scale below . 
The scale is from 1 to 10 , where 10 is the best and 1 is the worst . 
? 
submit submit HubPages About Us About Us Copyright Copyright Copyright © 2015 HubPages Inc. and respective owners . 
Other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners . 
® HubPages and Hubbers ( authors ) may earn revenue on this page based on affiliate relationships and advertisements with partners including Amazon , eBay , Google , and others . 
terms of use privacy policy working 
